# I18n Support

The i18n module (`html/pzmap/i18n.js`) provides localization support for the web UI.

# Localized template strings

Localized template strings can be obtained by the given template key using the `i18n.T` or `i18n.E` function. The i18n module automatically return the localized string for that template for the current language setting.

The template file `html/pzmap/i18n/i18n.yaml` stores all the template strings.

## i18n.T
The `i18n.T` function is used to retrieve a localized string using the specified template key and interpolates it with the provided parameters.
```
/**
 * @function
 * @param {string} key - The localization template key to look up.
 * @param {Object} [args] - Optional parameters to interpolate into the localized string.
 * @returns {string} The localized and interpolated string.
 */
function i18n.T(key, args);
```
For example, calling `i18n.T('greetings', { version: 42 })` with template file below will return `greetings from version 42!` in English or `版本 42 向你问好!` in Chinese, depending on the current language setting.
``` i18n.yaml
template:
    greetings:
        en: 'greetings from version {version}!'
        cn: '版本 {version} 向你问好!'
```
You can also pass an `Array` as `args`. In this case, the template should use numbered placeholders like `{0}`, `{1}`, `{2}`, etc., to reference the array elements.
## i18n.E
The `i18n.E` function retrieves a localized string for the specified template key and interpolates parameters by evaluating the template as a JavaScript template literal. Unlike `i18n.T`, which uses safe string substitution, `i18n.E` uses `eval` for interpolation, making it potentially unsafe. Only use `i18n.E` with trusted template files, as it can execute arbitrary code within the template.
```
/**
 * @function
 * @param {string} key - The localization template key to look up.
 * @param {Object} [args] - Optional parameters to interpolate into the localized string.
 * @returns {string} The localized and interpolated string.
 */
function i18n.E(key, args);
```
Within the template, reference the passed parameters using `args`. Additionally, you can access global variables provided by the web UI (such as `g`) or browser objects (like `window`) directly in the template expression. For more detail about how to write a template expression, see [Template literals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals).

For example, calling `i18n.E('greetings_eval', { version: 42 })` with the template file below will return `greetings from version 43!` in English or `版本 43 向你问好!` in Chinese, based on the current language setting.
``` i18n.yaml
template:
    greetings_eval:
        en: 'greetings from version ${args.version + 1}!'
        cn: '版本 ${args.version + 1} 向你问好!'
```

# UI binded localization templates

UI-bound localization templates automatically update the text of UI elements when the language is changed. These templates are defined in the `mapping` section of the template file.

For example, the configuration below instructs the i18n module to:
- Locate the HTML element with `id="page_title"` and set its `innerHTML` to the result of `i18n.E("PageTitle", null)`.
- Locate the HTML element with `id="layer_selector"` and set its `title` attribute to the result of `i18n.T("LayerSelector", null)`.
``` i18n.yaml
...
mapping:
    id:
        page_title:
            innerHTML:
                eval: PageTitle
        layer_selector:
            title: LayerSelector
```

# Adding a New Language

To add a new language:

1. Add the language code to the `ALL` variable in `html/pzmap/i18n.js`.
2. Update each template in `html/pzmap/i18n/i18n.yaml` to include translations for the new language code.